Kafka Streams instrumentation Rationale (#1189)
openzipkin/brave: instrumentation/kafka-streams/RATIONALE.md

# brave-kafka-streams rationale

## What's happening?
Typically, there are at least two spans involved in traces produces by a Kafka Stream application:
* One created by the Consumers that starts a Stream or Table, by `builder.stream(topic)`.
* One created by the Producer that sends a records to a Stream, by `builder.to(topic)`

By receiving records in a Kafka Streams application with Tracing enabled, the span created, once
a record is received, will inject the span context on the headers of the Record, and it will get

> propagated downstream onto the Stream topology. As the span context is stored in the Record Headers,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
propagated downstream onto the Stream topology. The span context is stored in the Record Headers,
```

the Producers at the middle (e.g. `builder.through(topic)`) or at the end of a Stream topology
will reference the initial span, and mark the end of a Stream Process.

> If intermediate steps on the Stream topology require tracing, then `TracingProcessorSupplier` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If intermediate steps on the Stream topology require tracing, `TracingProcessorSupplier` and
```

> `TracingTransformerSupplier` will allow you to define a Processor/Transformer where execution is recorded as Span,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`TracingTransformerSupplier` record execution into a new Span,
```

referencing the parent context stored on Headers, if available.

### Partitioning

Be aware that operations that require `builder.transformer(...)` will cause re-partitioning when

> grouping or joining downstream ([Kafka docs](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/streams/developer-guide/dsl-api.html#applying-processors-and-transformers-processor-api-integration)).

Reviewer: mention why we care?

### Why doesn't this trace all Kafka Streams operations?

When starting to design this instrumentation, “trace everything” was the first idea:
When a message enters the Kafka Streams topology starts a new `poll` span, and every operation
(e.g. `map`, `filter`, `join`, etc.) is chained as an additional child span.

Kafka Streams materializes its topology _internally_ based on DSL operations.
Therefore, is not possible to hook into the topology creation process to instrument each operation.

We considered changing Kafka Streams to have hooks to do this, but it would be a hard sell.

> The impact of adding these and rearrange lacking context would have a considerable impact surface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding these and rearrange lacking context would have a considerable library impact.
```

> Even if available, it would potentially expose excessive details as **all**

Reviewer: > Even if we had hooks, tracing **all** operations would be excessive. The resulting large
traces would be harder to understand, leading to requests to disable tracing. The
code involved to disable tracing may mean more code than visa versa!
